# mt13

## 1.
Prove or disprove:

**(a)** $$n^{33}\log{(n)}=O((n)^{\tfrac{1}{3}})$$

**(b)** $$\left(\log{(n)}\right)^n=\Theta\left(n^{\left(\log{(n)}\right)}\right)$$

## 2.
An array initially contains the entries $$\text{H}\:\:\text{A}\:\:\text{R}\:\:\text{D}\:\:\text{Q}\:\:\text{U}\:\:\text{E}\:\:\text{S}\:\:\text{T}\:\:\text{I}\:\:\text{O}\:\:\text{N}$$

**(a)** Which letters are swapped with $$\text{Q}$$ during insertion sort?

**(b)** How many times is recursive mergesort called, including the first time?

**(c)** What is the state of the array in heapsort (bottom up version), just after the heap is built?

**(d)** What is the state of the array in quicksort one swap after the $$\text{N}$$ is properly placed?

## 3.
Use the master theorem to determine the order of $$T(n)$$ for the following recursion.

**(a)** $$T(n)=4T\left(\frac{n}{2}\right)+5n^2$$;

**(b)** $$T(n)=5T\left(\frac{n}{2}\right)+5n^2\log{(n)}$$;

**(c)** $$T(n)=6T\left(\frac{n}{2}\right)+7n^3$$;


## 4.
Suppose a sorted array of $$n$$ elements takes at most $$6$$ comparisons in binary search. What are the possible value of $$n$$? What is the smallest expected value for the average-case number of comparisons for such an array, assuming that the probability that the search key is in the array with probability $$p$$ and the key is euqally likely to appear anywhere in the array.


## 5.
Counting the root as generation $$0$$, and its children as generation $$1$$, what are the possible generations for a leaf in a red-black tree with 40 nodes?


## 6.
Show the red-black tree generatd by inserting the array $$\text{M}\:\:\text{A}\:\:\text{Y}\:\:\text{S}\:\:\text{I}\:\:\text{X}\:\:\text{T}\:\:\text{H}$$ sequentially into the tree.

