# mt14


## 1. 
A sorting method known as shellsort uses at worst $$\Theta{\left(n^{\frac{3}{2}}\right)}$$ comparisons to sort an array of $$n$$ entries. How does that compare to other sorts you know?


## 2. 
An array contains the entries $$CRAZYQUESTION$$.

**(a)** What would be the last two comparisons performed by insertion sort?

**(b)** Using our implementation of quicksort, what are the first three entries that would
be used as pivots?

**(c)** Show the contents of the array after using the bottom-up method to build a heap.


## 3.
Suppose you wish to store the exact value for $$n!$$. Typically, this will end in lots of zero bits. Rather than store the trailing zeros, you need only store the bits that precede
them, and store the number of trailing zeros. For example, with
$$
18!=10110101111101110110011001010011100110000000000000000
$$
you need only store the significant digits
$$
1011010111110111011001100101001110011
$$
and the number of zeros
$$
10000
$$
(16 in binary, that is). The total number of bits before chopping is $$\left\lfloorlg n!\right\rfloor+1$$, and it turns out that the number of trailing zeros is given exactly by $$n-\text{bitsum}(n)$$, where $$\text{bitsum}(n)$$ denotes the number of 1’s in the binary expression of $$n$$. (For example, $$18=10010$$, so $$\text{bitsum}(18)=2$$.) Let $$f(n)$$ represent the number of bits necessary to store the significant digits of $$n!$$ and let $$g(n)$$ represent the number of bits necessary to store the number of trailing zeros of $$n!$$. (For example, $$f(18)=37$$, and $$g(18)=$$.) Show that
$$
\frac{f(n)}{g(n)}=\Theta{(n)}
$$.


##4. 
Using the master theorem, determine the complexity of the solutions to the following
recurrences. Show enough work so that I can follow your reasoning.

**(a)** 
 - $$T(n)=1$$ for $$n<2$$; 
 - $$T(n)=8T(n/2)+3n$$ for $$n\geq2$$;
**(b)**
 - $$T(n)=1$$ for $$n<2$$; 
 - $$T(n)=4T(n/4)+4n$$ for $$n\geq2$$;
c) T(n) = 1 for n < 2; T(n) = 2T(n/8) + 5√
n for n ≥ 2;