# hw01

## custom.01
Consider the following nested loops:
```c
for(int i=1; i<=N; i++)
	for(int j=1; j <= i; j++)
		for(int k=1; k <= i*sqrt(j); k++)
			x=i+j+k;
```
Using a timer or counting steps, calculate runtimes using $$N=10,\:20,\:40,\:100,\:200,\:400,\:1000,\:2000,\:4000,\:10000$$.
Based on the results, conjecture the complexity of the number of assignments performed. Prove your conjecture.


## custom.02
Consider this program :
```cpp
#include<iostream.h>
#include<math.h>
#include<iomanip.h>

double fcn(double x, double a) {
    return (x+a/x)/2;
}

int main() {
	double epsilon = 1e-3; // 3-digit precision
	double  a, b=1;

	cout.setf(  ios::fixed  );
	cout.setf(  ios::showpoint  );
	cout.precision(3);     // 3-digit precision

	cout << "Input number ";
	cin >> a;

	while(  fabs(fcn(b,a)-b) > epsilon  )
		b=fcn(b,a);

	cout << b << endl;

	return 0;
}
```
What does the outputted value signify? By timing or counting steps using several different inputs, conjecture the complexity of this algorithm. Can you prove your answer? Would your answer change if the value of 3 in the two commented lines changed to 6 or 9?


## custom.03
How many additions do the recursive and iterative Fibonacci programs perform in calculating the nth Fibonacci number?


##2.1.5

**(a)** Prove formula (2.1) for the number of bits in the binary representation of a positive decimal integer.
$$
b=\left\lfloor\log_{2}{(n)}\right\rfloor+1
$$

**(b)** Prove the alternative formula for the number of bits in the binary representation of a positive integer n:
$$
b=\left\lceil\log_{2}{(n+1)}\right\rceil
$$

**(c)** What would be the analogous formulas for the number of decimal digits?

**(d)** Explain why, within the accepted analysis framework, it does not matter whether we use binary or decimal digits in measuring n’s size.


##2.1.7
Gaussian elimination, the classic algorithm for solving systems of $$n$$ linear equations in $$n$$ unknowns, requires about $$\tfrac{1}{3}n^3$$ multiplications, which is the algorithm’s basic operation.

**(a)** How much longer should you expect Gaussian elimination to work on a system of 1000 equations versus a system of 500 equations?

**(b)** You are considering buying a computer that is 1000 times faster than the one you currently have.  By what factor will the faster computer increase the sizes of systems solvable in the same amount of time as on the old computer?


##2.1.8
For each of the following functions, indicate how much the function’s value will change if its argument is increased fourfold.

**(a)** $$\log_{2}{(n)}$$

**(b)** $$\sqrt{n}$$

**(c)** $$n$$

**(d)** $$n^2$$

**(e)** $$n^3$$

**(f)** $$2^n$$


##2.1.9
For each of the following pairs of functions, indicate whether the first function of each of the following pairs has a lower, same, or higher order of growth (to within a constant multiple) than the second function.

**(a)** $$n(n+1)\:\:\text{and}2000n^2$$

**(b)** $$100n^2\:\:\text{and}\:\:0.01n^3$$

**(c)** $$\log_{2}{(n)}\:\:\text{and}\:\:\ln{(n)}$$

**(d)** $$\log_2^2{(n)}\:\:\text{and}\:\:\log_2{(n^2)}$$

**(e)** $$2^{n-1}\:\:\text{and}\:\:2^n$$

**(f)** $$(n-1)!\:\:\text{and}\:\:n!$$


##2.2.2
Use the informal definitions of $$O$$, $$\Theta$$, and $$\Omega$$ to determine whether the following assertions are true or false.

**(a)** $$\frac{n(n+1)}{2}\in{O}(n^3)$$

**(b)** $$\frac{n(n+1)}{2}\in{O}(n^2)$$

**(c)** $$\frac{n(n+1)}{2}\in{\Theta}(n^3)$$

**(d)** $$\frac{n(n+1)}{2}\in{\Omega}(n)$$


##2.2.3
For each of the following functions, indicate the class $$\Theta(g(n))$$ the function belongs to. (Use the simplest $$g(n)$$ possible in your answers.) Prove your assertions.

**(a)** $$(n^2 +1)^{10}$$

**(b)** $$\sqrt{10n^2 +7n+3}$$

**(c)** $$2n\log{(n+2)^2}+(n+2)^2\log{\left(\frac{n}{2}\right)}$$

**(d)** $$2^{n+1}+3^{n-1}$$

**(e)** $$\left\lceil\log_{2}{(n)}\right\rceil$$
